# The First Generation Investor
### Working Draft Edition 3.0.3

Edits: 
- 3.0.1 Foreword
- 3.0.2 Social Media Investing
- 3.0.3 Foreword, Social Media Investing
- 3.0.4 Social Media Investing
- 3.0.5 Social Media Investing
- 3.0.6 Financial Technology Investing



## Foreword

The first-generation investor is ultimately the unique perspective of an age group that has aged alongside the development of the internet. I would like to consider that we may live in the early innings of one of the most consequential periods of human history. We may live in a period of tech-colonization where the central goal may be to further our capacity as a space-varying species. After the introduction of the coronavirus pandemic, I began to regularly ask what the purpose of the internet was. Personally, I've come to the conclusion that the internet is a form of interplanetary communications and the efforts that drive Google, SpaceX, Amazon, and other complex organizations will converge toward that goal.

Consider the idea that a nation like Mexico is unlikely to develop competitors for Apple or Google. If you search for the largest market capitalizations in history, big technology firms are hovering around a similar size to the colonial powers of Dutch East India Company or the Mississippi Company and have far surpassed the economic phenomenon of Rockefeller’s Standard Oil. In some ways, organizations like Apple or Google can be seen as modern railroads or sailing ships while also being reflective of problems brought forth by the robber barons and colonialists of the past. It is clear that the internet has developed to the point where it defines our economy and position in the world after showing economic resiliency and strength throughout the COVID pandemic. The economics behind the internet today is far different than the famous internet bubble of 2000 where itwas still in a child state. The internet and its consequences are far more “real” now. If we were to compare the technology bubble of 2000 to today; the cryptocurrency market is a far more appropriate comparison.

The future of this world may remember this point of history as a primitive era. We’re essentially the writers on the wall through applications like Facebook, TikTok, Twitter, and other ways of utilizing the internet. The American legacy is likely a technological empire that will be remembered along these lines during this primitive era. That being said, I hope that reading this helps you understand the world that we live in. I hope that it challenges you and I hope that you enjoy it.

# 2. Social Media Investing

It likely makes sense to discuss and break down what a social network really is since it is something that has significantly changed human behavior. I like to invest in what I consider “intent-based” social media and this is likely a function of my age and relationship with the internet. An intent-based social media platform is a network where the user is likely to use the application as a tool before considering entertainment. In short, social media exists on a spectrum ranging from intention to entertainment. One could see how a platform like TikTok is geared toward entertainment, while a platform like Pinterest is designed for intention. In this spectrum, we find many others in the middle like YouTube, Twitter, or Reddit.

A social media platform is a forum. A forum is “a place, meeting, or medium where ideas and views on a particular issue can be exchanged”. Each forum accomplishes this in its own unique way.  Twitter is fundamentally used to search for what someone is saying, while Pinterest is used to search for ideas. Pinterest is a particularly interesting case due to hundreds of millions of women adopting the platform and achieving what Google+ had failed to accomplish. I believe this is also an interesting examination of how influential women are to the market. As aptly put by Warren Buffet,

“I have two sisters that are absolutely smart as I am and better personalities,” Buffett told Yahoo Finance’s editor-in-chief Andy Serwer in a wide-ranging interview. “And, they were born around my time of 1930. And they were told, ‘Marry early and marry well. That was the unseen message. “I mean, nobody ever said it that way. So, I have seen half of the United States’ talent basically put off to the side.”
It's important to understand this distinction when investing in internet forums like Facebook, Twitter, or Snapchat because an investor would not want to mistake the differences between companies like Home Depot or Walmart. Sure, both organizations exist in the retailing space, but the nature of the business, its incentives, and its customers are worlds apart. So is Pinterest a social media platform, search service, or both? With this in mind, we might begin to see why Facebook implementing a hashtag, Instagram implementation stories, or TikTok implementing streams may be irrelevant when understanding the full potential of a service like Snapchat or Twitter. This introduces our and most important order of complexity - customer’s are driven by incentive. This is one of the fundamentals that I often seek to improve my understanding on. The challenge here is illustrated by the wisdom of Abraham Lincoln,
“How many legs does a dog have if you call his tail a leg? Four. Saying that a tail is a leg doesn't make it a leg.”
 When revising social media, it’s crucial to understand how much it relies on suggestions to facilitate conversation or impressions at scale. For example, an application like TikTok heavily leans on algorithms to distribute content, while an application like Reddit mostly leans on user decisions like votes and comments. This furthers our understanding of the incentives of social media by examining how TikTok depends on those algorithms to deliver on its goals to entertain audiences, while Reddit depends on user governance in order to achieve its goal in building communities.
What drives a social networking site is a user’s incentive to search or discover information in that particular forum. As a result, examining social networking sites can be a lot like comparing shopping centers, such that a shopper is incentivized to go to a location for a particular reason that is best served by that institution. Pinterest uses pins, Reddit uses subreddits, and Google uses links - all having unique advantages as a means to distribute information.
The forum may take on a different medium. Google is used to answer information, Facebook allows us to connect, while online gaming satisfies our needs for adventure. When you examine the nature of a forum and a user’s incentives to participate in that forum, you’ll come to understand why a force like Twitter, Pinterest, or online games like Roblox are a force of nature. These forums engage our very real needs and demands as social beings. It will also help you understand why companies like Facebook would endeavor in metaverse products, virtual reality games, and other forms of social media.
Pinterest is closer to the adoption of applications like YouTube or Reddit, where users aren't necessarily sharing their profiles with friends and use the applications to search for information that they find meaningful to them. This is what is known as “personal media” rather than typical “social media”. This is a characteristic that I believe grants a media platform a longer product lifespan. 
The network-effect that built Pinterest has mostly been driven by women across all social-economic statuses, resulting in profound economic consequences across global households. What this ultimately results in is word-of-mouth adoption, where families learn how to use Pinterest as a tool and search engine rather than an application to connect with friends or family. As a result, Pinterest’s recommendation model is geared to advertise to women-influenced interests, which we will touch on shortly.

This has long-term positive consequences for product advertisers regardless of culture - which is exactly why Pinterest is performing remarkably well with international user adoption. Most American customers have already been effectively registered, where nearly 100 million American women are monthly active users. 

These customers are voluntarily searching for ads. Behaviorally, this means that Pinterest’s customers are in a high willingness to engage with things that result in action. In other words, a Pinterest user is logging in because they need to start, plan, and consume something in the near future. Customers do not need to be influenced into a product when the customer is coming onto the application with completely different expectations and incentives to search and shop. This is basically a sweet spot for advertisers, as they know they’re getting top "real estate" advertisements. With a simple search, you’re welcomed to a rich library of consumable ideas for health, gifts, beauty, travelling, home developments, and millions of other regularly marketed products.

Pinterest users have an incredibly high willingness to engage as a function of using the platform as a power tool. This willingness to engage inevitably translates into a willingness to pay. Pinterest was not designed to make a user spend hours mindlessly scrolling for content to discover random nuggets of entertainment. It was designed to make a sale and keep a customer happy outside of Pinterest so that the customer develops a positive relationship with the tool. That is fundamentally different from Facebook’s connect-everything approach to social-networking. It is less wasteful and more effective.

You may wonder why Pinterest essentially dominates the Google Images real estate when searching for  images. This is a pretty complicated question to answer since the search engine optimization market is relatively new. As a rule of thumb, try to imagine that Google Search is more or less "the web" where website links are the lifeblood to Google search. A good link is extremely valuable to Google.

Due to this relationship, it is in Google's interest to attempt to create a system that best serves their customer by offering the best, fastest, and most well-rounded results. This means that the most utilized or most well-developed websites are often the top results in a Google search.  This partially explains why searching for "Lebron James" today will result in search results by websites like Twitter, Wikipedia, Instagram, and other supersites.  Similarly, searching for "Vegan food near me" will produce results by organizations like Yelp and Doordash.

There are many other reasons of course, but this is a rough rule of thumb: the more "well-developed" a website is, the more likely that it will dominate web search results. As the web progresses, the definition of "well-developed" changes. An example of this is that Google begins to rank and prefer websites that implement privacy, page-load speed, and other important internet accessibility practices. This benefits organizations like Pinterest who develop tools like in-app browsers and support integration with applications like Zoom, Etsy, Shopify, and other large-scale platforms.

Why is Google doing this? Because they want high web standards as a global competitor and global leader of the internet. Part of the global competition is shaping the internet’s development to consider people that have high latency connections since software can scale faster than some of the hardware that is available around the globe. The internet is ultimately “access to information”, which is as statistically scarce as “access to clean water” around the globe. In this regard, Google and Facebook compete rather aggressively.

I totally love the fact that the network-effect behind Pinterest is built by women, but not necessarily for women. I am carefully monitoring the results of this network-effect as I believe that it will have long-term consequences on family life and scale as one of the most valuable internet properties. I feel that this kind of product design will eventually create a deeper gravity for advertisers, where they know that Pinterest is a reliable and effective advertising space.

I use Facebook and Instagram every day, resulting in nothing. I regularly seek to delete it. I use Pinterest a few times a month at most. The difference is, every time I use Pinterest, I follow up or plan to follow up with some consumer behavior.  That, to me, is incredible.
3. Financial Technology Investing
An interesting challenge when writing this book is how events unfold throughout the process. When it comes to financial technology, some previous drafts had discussed the development of credit models and speculated upon it. The events that have unfolded, like Square’s 27 billion dollar acquisition of a credit product, make me feel more comfortable in my writing and perspective on this subject.

Understanding financial technology welcomes the second order of complexity for investing - it pays to enjoy history and philosophy. We start off with this because financial technology is rooted in the concept of the underbanked, the consequences of underbanking, or its origins. In the Americas, at least to my knowledge and experience, this often intersects with dynamics of racism and its historical timeline.
To put it curtly, the United States has a history with racism and power that extends into regions like Mexico, Brazil, or its own domestic homeland with respect to drugs, regional development,  and judicial power. Understanding this premise is an important backdrop to the business strategy discussed later.

Putting that backdrop aside, there are two primary elements to financial technology and digital banking which are deposits and verification. With deposits, you have fuel to run financial processes. With verification, you have the ability to execute them. The organizations that make up this ecosystem are players like Stripe, Visa, Square, Paypal, and other infrastructures. They are simply network layers over existing banks. For example, Stripe would partner with Evolve Bank to develop or enhance particular services while Square partners with Sutton Bank in order to develop virtual cards through Cash App. The relationship is beneficial for both parties, as technology firms gain access to compliance and legal frameworks for operation while banking firms gain access to the distribution powers of technology. This all ties in neatly to the core requirements of needing deposits and verification in order to function and grow.

In order to distribute financial services to people, trustworthiness and accountability must be established. There are regulatory frameworks developed by the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), Anti-money Laundering (AML), or the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) which define the whats, hows, and whys of verifying the data that passes in a network. This is why it's required for a customer to place their address and social security numbers when registering for platforms like Robinhood, which is ultimately known as KYC or Know-Your-Customer. The internet has certainly come a long way, where the fear of putting one’s payment card information online would provoke uncertainty and fear of identity theft, while today there does not seem to be so much hesitation to even submit a valuable piece of information like a social security number online. This points to the incentives and ecosystem of financial technology being stronger than the fear of identity theft, which is a remarkable change in digital consumerism.

This growing relationship exists during a period where alternative currencies on network structures like the blockchain challenge these frameworks.  According to investors like Charlie Munger, who I admire, alternative currencies are bad because they cannot detect crime due to its ability to privatize transactions. What this suggests is that you belong to a system that assumes you are untrustworthy first and must essentially verify that you aren't an undocumented immigrant, a drug trading criminal, terrorist, or some other blacklisted individual. This, of course, ties back into our statements earlier regarding race, power, and access to resources. These relationships are then extended into things like credit score, financial education, loan offerings, and other means of securing wealth. In my view, it begins to look increasingly absurd as other technologies develop solutions for these limitations. I currently see the cryptocurrency and blockchain economy as one similar to the internet bubble of 2000. There will be consequential technologies that arise from it but much of what exists today is still fragmented, unknown, or incomplete.

This is the overall picture of the fundamental constraints in the sector. At the surface, it’s to understand how a deposit and verification system works. At a deeper level, it requires an investor to understand historical consequences and the intention and adoption behind particular products. In the same sense that Pinterested is geared toward women, financial technology companies are geared toward digital natives and the underbanked. It is no secret as to why Square or Robinhood invests in and researches alternative currencies. The basic root behind the decision is that it allows research into new verification methods. It is a potential vector for changing the rules of the game and leveling the playing field so to speak. 

This research into KYC can take many different forms. For example, a recent popular mechanism and protocol has been the non-fungible token or NFT, which is effectively a digital autograph that verifies that a digital good is assigned to a seller and purchaser with a documented history. We've seen rather bizarre experiments of this tool, like the selling of a Tweet. but a much more simple case would be the sale of limited edition digital albums on a music platform like Tidal, which is owned by Square. It is ultimately up to the platform to verify that the collector album is authentic, such that purchasing and reselling the album on the platform is valid and cannot be duplicated. This is really just an interface change - a simple icon or even color coding that can't be duplicated by outside users to show that an album purchase is appropriately verified.

You may see this as silly at first, but it makes perfect sense from an economic perspective. When it comes to a digital album or even digital clothes, it helps to imagine how much time is spent on these platforms. The value we assign to these digital products is ultimately an expression of time that it consumes. For example, a child who spends several hours on Roblox a day may at times value their digital shoes more than shoes created by "real" material in the "real" world. Well, what if you bought digital shoes that were once worn by your favorite artist who also happens to play the same game? The NFT product is an extension of how bitcoin was treated historically - a collector’s item.

The above examples are just light demonstrations to paint a picture, but it really helps to just see the whole KYC problem as a structural issue with the internet. What alternative currencies incentivizes is to treat digital financial services as a protocol over a platform. Is a Tweet really a property of Twitter, or is it closer to an email protocol that may belong to a user? Can identity verification and deposits be merged? 

The story that drives the fintech industry is to be able to distribute resources and services that have largely been ignored or abused by traditional banking markets. In this regard, I feel that services like Robinhood and Square lead this idealism well. Square found its way by offering services to small businesses, whether it be the ability to create a website, accept payments, or utilize bitcoin. Robinhood took the path of democratizing and distributing investor resources like the ability to invest with low wage on recurring schedules or to be able to invest in companies before their IPO to secure a fair price purchase for worthwhile and speculative offerings.

Both organizations are in the business of money applications and properly incentivize the need to continuously deposit. An investor will regularly maintain a set of cash or will need to increase their contributions over time, while a business will need to continuously earn and spend. Overtime, if the customers are successful, the ability to increase deposits, spend, or total results in the ability to access and create credit products. The consequence of this is wonderful, as it allows technology to begin to disrupt traditional credit models with new protocols. 

One such example is the recent consolidation of the Buy Now Pay Later industry between organizations like Square, Paypal, and Affirm. My view holds that we will eventually see organizations transition into other markets that have been crippled by historical challenges; some loans are difficult to access like business, automobiles, or other productive assets that demand strict credit and trust worthiness. We may see it become a common practice to allow customers to credit products without credit checking like the popularization of secured loan cards that depend on user deposits, safer credit building, and more simple scheduling for customer experience.

There is a recurring theme in regards to technology’s outreach in the global stage. There is a point in poverty where access to basic resources becomes threatened. These are common needs like the ability to access clean water, sanitation, or the ability to access information. Some subsets of an information shortage is an inconsistent education or the inability to access banking and the internet. Banking, often being an information dense procedure based on scheduling and monitoring your deposits, suffers as a result of this. It’s difficult to get and difficult to keep.

Square and Robinhood’s story is a tale of the unconventional and unintuitive. Square’s services like Tidal and Cash App, for the most part, targets urban youth by featuring hip-hop culture as a way to introduce and onboard young and ideally long-term users . Cash App becomes a location where an eighteen year old high school graduate is able to access bitcoin, securities, deposits, and credit features out of the box. Robinhood, on the other hand, is a bizarre story of chaos where the company had essentially asked itself what would happen if we opened up complex market mechanics to a population that largely does not have that much stored in savings.  It turns out that extreme events occur, as was the case with Gamestop’s meteoric rise from millions to billions of dollars over a few weeks, and forever changing the landscape of what a market participant is. Robinhood also marketed cleverly to a similar youth group by having an application that was effectively shareable on platforms like Reddit, where image, titling, and content weighs heavily. These organizations have accomplished something remarkable by lowering the barrier to entry to start businesses, schedule investments, manage portfolios, or utilize complex systems like bitcoin and options trading. 

So these are all strong drivers and incentives to continuously deposit into these money applications, whether you’re a merchant on Square Seller, a customer looking for a deal on Cash App, or a retail investor on Robinhood. The result of these deposits have allowed financial technology firms to begin to segment into credit markets. Due to the demographics of many fintechs, it’s likely that we will not see many of these companies  are not yet near full potential and may not see it until the next decade.  It was a similar story for the dot com era technologies that eventually grew to be behemoths of the market decades later.

When thinking on the subject of financial technology, I often think of one quote by one of the founding American banks, the CEO & Chairman of JPMorgan Chase, on emerging fintechs:

“Absolutely, we should be scared shitless about that. We have plenty of resources, a lot of very smart people. We’ve just got to get quicker, better, faster. As you look at what we’ve done, you’d say we’ve done a good job, but the other people have done a good job, too. Competition will be particularly tight in the world of payments. I expect to see very, very tough, brutal competition in the next 10 years. I expect to win, so help me God.”





